Update JSX documentation (#3064)
microsoft/TypeScript-Website: packages/documentation/copy/en/reference/JSX.md

TypeScript uses the [same convention that React does](http://facebook.github.io/react/docs/jsx-in-depth.html#html-tags-vs.-react-components) for distinguishing between these.
An intrinsic element always begins with a lowercase letter, and a value-based element always begins with an uppercase letter.

### The `JSX` namespace

JSX in TypeScript is typed by the `JSX` namespace. The `JSX` namespace may be defined in various places, depending on the `jsx` compiler option.

> The `jsx` options `preserve`, `react`, and `react-native` use the type definitions for classic runtime. This means a variable needs to be in scope that’s determined by the `jsxFactory` compiler option. The `JSX` namespace needs to specified on the top-most identifier of the JSX factory. For example, React uses the default factory `React.createElement`. This means its `JSX` namespace should be defined as `React.JSX`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `jsx` options `preserve`, `react`, and `react-native` use the type definitions for classic runtime. This means a variable needs to be in scope that’s determined by the `jsxFactory` compiler option. The `JSX` namespace needs to be specified on the top-most identifier of the JSX factory. For example, React uses the default factory `React.createElement`. This means its `JSX` namespace should be defined as `React.JSX`.
```

> The `jsx` options `preserve`, `react`, and `react-native` use the type definitions for classic runtime. This means a variable needs to be in scope that’s determined by the `jsxFactory` compiler option. The `JSX` namespace needs to specified on the top-most identifier of the JSX factory. For example, React uses the default factory `React.createElement`. This means its `JSX` namespace should be defined as `React.JSX`.

Reviewer: > The `JSX` namespace needs to specified on the top-most identifier of the JSX factory.

global is also still an option I believe. So the "must" would be misleading.

Author: I don’t understand. The word _“must”_ isn’t used here. The global `JSX` namespace is documented a few lines down on line 129.

Reviewer: "needs" was used not "must", sorry for the confusion. Which effectively means the same. Correcting this later is not sufficient. If TypeScript has a fallback, you don't *need* to have it scoped.

Author: Would _“should”_ be better in your opinion?

```

Preact uses the JSX factory `h`. That means its types should be defined as the `h.JSX`.

```ts
export function h(props: any): any;

export namespace h.JSX {
  // …
}
```

The user should use a named import to import `h`.

```ts
import { h } from 'preact';
```

For the `jsx` options `react-jsx` and `react-jsxdev`, the `JSX` namespace needs to be exported from the matching entry points. For `react-jsx` this is `${jsxImportSource}/jsx-runtime`. For `react-jsxdev`, this is `${jsxImportSource}/jsx-dev-runtime`. Since these don’t use a file extension, you must use the [`exports`](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) field in `package.json` map in order to support ESM users.

```json 
{
  "exports": {
    "./jsx-runtime": "./jsx-runtime.js",
    "./jsx-dev-runtime": "./jsx-dev-runtime.js",
  }
}
```

Then in `jsx-runtime.d.ts` and `jsx-dev-runtime.d.ts`:

```ts
export namespace JSX {
  // …
}
```

Note that while exporting the `JSX` namespace is sufficient for type checking, the production runtime needs the `jsx`, `jsxs`, and `Fragment` exports at runtime, and the development runtime needs `jsxDEV` and `Fragment`. Ideally you add types for those too.

> 

Reviewer: Since this is all specific to a single library, I don't think we need docs for that. The docs are equal to the current implementation in `@tyes/react` or `react`.

It was already problematic that these were introduced without working with React types maintainers. Writing docs make it seem like the TS team just need to update docs and React types maintainers just need to pay attention which is not (and [was not) healthy for the ecosystem](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/pull/39199#issuecomment-731090590).

Author: How is this specific to a single library? This applies to all libraries that support JSX.

Reviewer: `react-jsx` is specific to libraries other than React?

Author: None of the possible options are specific to React, but most have the word `react` in it.

| Name | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| `preserve` | Preserve JSX, emit `.jsx` extension |
| `react-native` | Preserve JSX, emit `.js` extension |
| `react` | JSX classic runtime |
| `react-jsx` | JSX automatic runtime |
| `react-jsxdev` | JSX automatic development runtime |

Reviewer: I understand that for classic because that's old. No idea why this was continued with `react-jsx`

However, it is not possible to retrieve type information about the element, attributes or children of the JSX from this interface.
It is a black box.

## The JSX function return type

> By default, JSX functions must return the `JSX.Element` type. However, this doesn’t always represent runtime behaviour. As of TypeScript 5.1, you can specify `JSX.ElementType` to override what is a valid JSX component type. The default looks something like this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, function components must return `JSX.Element | null`. However, this doesn’t always represent runtime behaviour. As of TypeScript 5.1, you can specify `JSX.ElementType` to override what is a valid JSX component type. The default looks something like this:
```

> By default, JSX functions must return the `JSX.Element` type. However, this doesn’t always represent runtime behaviour. As of TypeScript 5.1, you can specify `JSX.ElementType` to override what is a valid JSX component type. The default looks something like this.

Reviewer: We should mention here that the type of the props is not extracted from this type at the moment. Props type inference still only looks at the first argument of functions or constructors, otherwise looks up props from `JSX.IntrinsicElements`
